---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Snowden"
date: 2018-11-12
---

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hLjuVyIIrs

Snowden is a true patriot. However, hardly 5 years later his legacy is less of a hero who saved democracy and more a whistleblower barred from coming back home. His intentions were pure, but it seems like the fight against government monitoring was a losing battle from the start, and we fear there has been no lasting change as consequence.

However, as programmers and as humans, we must respect someone who was willing to lose it all trying to make the world a better place. If there is any real damage done by our work, it is that of further increasing the power of our superiors, regardless of their intentions to use or misuse that power. Snowden was someone who saw too much of what his work enabled. Sometimes... you just don't want to know.

But sometimes you have to actually believe in something as well. Maybe whistleblowing isn't always the best choice, but an action as simple as asking to change projects or even moving to a different employer with less obvious signs of abuse can make a difference. Some might call this cowardly, but for most people it is enough to not be directly responsible for the problem. Of course, if we're lucky, we can actually work on a project that is designed to be resistant to misuse, to reduce the power, prevent corrupt incentives, and to automate the process in a way that does not involve humans; to make a system which can be trusted more than a greed-based organism, and make the world better for it.

But perhaps such a notion is too idealistic. Any system that wields such power provides a juicy target and a single point of failure. Also, such distillation of power invites corruption, or perhaps would be perceived as too dangerous to let out of human hands. And of course, any technocratic system is liable to being hacked or manipulated.

So what's the solution? Improve security? Doing so makes your platform a secret communication tool, the next dark web. Reduce security? Enjoy your new 1984. Where's the good in creating either of those systems, when either way, good people get hurt because of it?

Snowden exemplifies the fact that in this world, when looking at the right angle... all our systems in place are shown to just be an endless, interlocking field of catch-22s. But we'll always need someone to remind us of why we should care about these problems. We will always need our Snowdens of yesteryear.
