layout: post
title: "HW15: Chapter 15"
date: 2019-10-01
---

### 15.10. The reuse of software raises a number of copyright and intellectual property issues. If a customer pays a software contractor to develop a system, who has the right to reuse the developed code? Does the software contractor have the right to use that code as a basis for a generic component? What payment mechanisms might be used to reimburse providers of reusable components? Discuss these issues and other ethical issues associated with the reuse of software.

In the case of licensing, my approach can be summarized by "oh god oh god no why". This is because the ethics are notoriously complicated, so much so that one might as well just figure out what the contract says and call that ethical, because it's what matters anyways. Except that the contracts and licenses themselves can be quite complicated. Take, for example, the simple "CC BY-SA" licence; a permissive license that allows one to utilize the given code however you want, provided you acknowledge the source of the code and maintain the same license. But what license does your project require if you utilize code from two different sources with two different 'permissive' licenses who both require 'share-alike'?

The truth is, in my honest opinion, code should not be covered under any form of copyright or copy protection. Whatsoever. This is because while code is "infinitely creative" in how it can be written, if you want it to *actually work* your code is going to look a lot like everyone else's. And really, the entire purpose of programming is to find ways to make less work for ourselves, right? So why on earth is it that somehow we're supposed to believe that copying good code is unethical? It's the single most ethical thing you can do; maximize work done, minimize effort wasted. Utilize all that time and energy where you could have been busy reinventing the wheel, and instead use it to actually **push the field forwards**.

The fact that people are so bullheaded about claiming what's "theirs" when in fact we're all the same species with the same limitations, reading the same textbooks, programming on the same computers for the same language on the same operating systems (with *minor* variations, granted); but that somehow we expect to be treated as if our individual genius is such that "no one could ever write syntax quite like me"... not to be cruel, but humans aren't that smart. And wasting so much effort to gain no progress just reeks of the worst of humanity's tendencies to forget that ethics true greater purpose is to *improve* the world, not to drag others backwards.
