---
layout: post
title: "HW8: Chapter 2"
date: 2019-09-10
---

### 2.1. Suggest the most appropriate generic software process model that might be used as a basis for managing the development of the following systems. Explain your answer according to the type of system being developed:

* A system to control antilock braking in a car

Waterfall.

You know exactly what it does, how it should work, and can easily predict the issues it might run into. IO is simple, the hardware is likely custom-designed by the guy in the desk next to yours, and your project has no room for errors. This is a clear cut waterfall software project. You can clearly define the scope, responsibilities, requirements, process, and timeline. Everything will go to plan. Similarly, due to the risk if it goes wrong, there is not a lot of room to be utilizing barely-understood code from 'somewhere'. This must be done simply, and with a clear-cut process.

* A virtual reality system to support software maintenance

Integration and Configuration.

Virtual reality relies on many layers of softwares. The VR device itself will have a complex interface; but there are many existing engines and frameworks which make the process significantly simpler. While the 'to support software maintenance' part of this doesn't make any sense to me as a VR project (do you want to visualize flowcharts in 3-d space?), the fact is that you'll definitely want to utilize existing firmwares, hardwares, and softwares to simplify integrating the virtual world you are creating with this complex IO device. The functional part of your software has to be squeezed into a delicate framework of necessary integrated/configured elements. As such, this is the only development process option.

* A university accounting system that replaces an existing system

Integration and Configuration.  

While, ultimately, every part of the software would probably need to be redesigned, it is also the case that there will be many existing tools (some internal, some external) which provide fuctionalities which are essential at a fraction of the cost (and fraction of costly mistakes) of self-developing these elements. Accounting systems could easily utilize an existing front-end while restructuring the database, or redesign the website while keeping the server the same. Meanwhile, login and account tracking features might be best integrated from utilizing a microsoft login framework, rather than reinventing the wheel of user identification and likelt making some critical mistake in the process. The database itself would likely be SQL-based - again, integrate and incorporate tried-and-true software elements to efficiently create an accounting system what is significantly cheaper, more modern, and quite likely more robust than attempting to start from scratch.

* An interactive travel planning system that helps users plan journeys with the lowest environmental impact

Incremental development.  

This project sounds like it is complicated and hard to predict as to what variables must be considered, and how they are weighted. As such, incremental development is best suited. Start with the simplest core; a travel planning system that finds travel options and allows them to be selected. Add organization features. Add scheduling elements. Finally work on how those results are weighted and displayed. Redesign the weigting system with testing and feedback. Each stage is distinct as the software approaches completion; similarly, when the base is incomplete, the next step cannot be worked on properly. After all, you need to filter by 'viable' travel options before filtering those for 'most environmental'. You can't return before you leave even if that is the most environmental option. You cant 'leave' from a neighboring country, and 'return' to antarctica. Basic features first; even if the core purpose of this app is environmentalism, you have to complete every step leading up to it before that 'core' can be developed.
